Add documentation for new Valve integration (#29572)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_integrations/valve.markdown

---
title: Valve
description: Instructions on how to integrate valves into Home Assistant.
ha_category:
  - Valve
ha_release: 2024.1.0
ha_quality_scale: internal
ha_codeowners:
  - '@home-assistant/core'
ha_domain: valve
ha_integration_type: entity
---

> Home Assistant can give you an interface to control valves like water, gas or air valves.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Home Assistant can give you an interface to control valves such as water, gas, or air valves.
```

> Home Assistant can give you an interface to control valves such as water, gas, or air valves.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The valve entity in Home Assistant provides an interface to control valves such as water, gas, or air valves.
```

{% include integrations/building_block_integration.md %}

> ## Device Class

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Device class
```

> You can change the kind of valve you are representing in the [customize section](/docs/configuration/customizing-devices/). The following device classes are supported for valves:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can change the device class of the valve in the [customize section](/docs/configuration/customizing-devices/). Valves support the following device classes:
```

- **None**: Generic valve. This is the default and doesn't need to be set.
- **water**: Valve that controls the flow of water through a system.
- **gas**: Valve that controls the flow of gas through a system.

## Services

> ### Cover control services

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Valve control services
```

> All valves respond to `valve.open`, `valve.close` and `valve.toggle`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All valves respond to `valve.open`, `valve.close`, and `valve.toggle`.
```

> Valves that allow intermediate position may be controlled also with `valve.set_position` and `valve.stop`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Valves that allow for an intermediate position may also be controlled with `valve.set_position` and `valve.stop`.
```

> Valves that allow for an intermediate position may also be controlled with `valve.set_position` and `valve.stop`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Valves that allow setting a specific position may also be controlled with `valve.set_position` and `valve.stop`.
```
suggesting to use "specific" here as this is the term you used in the glossary.

| Service data attribute | Optional | Description |
| ---------------------- | -------- | ----------- |
| `entity_id` | yes | String or list of strings that point at `entity_id`'s of valves. Use `entity_id: all` to target all.

#### Automation example

```yaml
automation:
  trigger:
    platform: time
    at: "07:15:00"
  action:
    - service: valve.close
      target:
        entity_id: valve.demo
```

### Service `valve.set_position`

> Set valve position of one or multiple valves, if they support intermediate positions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Set valve position of one or multiple valves, if they support intermediate positions.
```
```suggestion
Set the position of one or multiple valves if they support setting a specific position.
```

| Service data attribute | Optional | Description |
| ---------------------- | -------- | ----------- |
| `entity_id` | yes | String or list of strings that point at `entity_id`'s of valves. Use `entity_id: all` to target all.

> | `position` | no | Integer between 0 and 100.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `position` | no | Integer between 0 and 100.
```
What do the values mean? 0 means closed, 100 means the valve is open?

Author: Yes. I clarified it.

> | `position` | no | Integer between 0 (fully closed), and 100 (fully open).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `position` | no | Integer between 0 (fully closed) and 100 (fully open).
```
